# Go CLI Tool

### Whitney's Notes

- This Golang CLI tool is based on the [tutorial](https://levelup.gitconnected.com/tutorial-how-to-create-a-cli-tool-in-golang-a0fd980264f) by [Andrew4d3](https://github.com/Andrew4d3).
- The original tutorial has unit tests based on templates generated by VSCode. For my own learning, I decided to create my own unit tests using the [Ginkgo](https://onsi.github.io/ginkgo/) testing framework.

### Whitney's Random Learnings

1. Error strings made with `errors.New("")` should begin with a lowercase letter and end with no punctuation.
<!-- 1. The `flag` package is used for  -->
1. When testing multiple scenarios with different command line arguments, it's important to reset the flag command line after each test so the new arguments can be parsed.


## go-csv2json

> _[Original README.md from the [How to create a CLI tool in Golang](https://levelup.gitconnected.com/tutorial-how-to-create-a-cli-tool-in-golang-a0fd980264f) tutorial]_


This is a tool to transform a CSV file into a JSON one. It will parse all CSV rows from a file into a JSON array and output the result into a `.json` file. Each data cell will be parsed as a string datatype.

## How to use it
```
$ ./csv2json [options] <csvFilePath>
```
Example:
```
$ ./csv2json data.csv
```
The command above will create a `data.json` file at exactly the same dir location of `data.csv`

## Options Available
- **pretty**: if enabled, it will create a well-formatted JSON file instead of a compact one (one single line)
- **separator**: to indicate which character is used to separate cells. Only accepted options are `comma` (default) or `semicolon`.

Example using options:
```
$ ./csv2json --pretty --separator=semicolon data.csv
```
The command above will create a formatted `data.json` file at exactly the same dir location of `data.csv` The row columns from this file are separated using semicolons instead of commas.

## Learning Go
I made this tool with the only intention to practice my recently acquired Golang skills. Feel free to use the source code as a way of learning more about how to use this programming language. Especially for creating CLI tools.

> _[End of original README.md]_

## License

MIT